# Week 3: Composite Data-Types

### Arrays

* Fixed-length series of elements of a chosen type
* Elements accessed using subscript notation, [ ]
* Index starts at 0
* Elements initialized to zero value ("", 0, etc.)

```go
// array of 5 integers
var x [5]int

x[0] = 2
fmt.Printf(x[0])
fmt.Printf(x[1])
```

#### Array Literal
* An array pre-defined with values
```go
var x [5]int = [5]{1, 2, 3, 4, 5}
// ... to infer literal size
y := [...]int{1, 2, 3, 4, 5}
```

#### Iterating through Arrays
```go
x := [3]int {1, 2, 3}

for i, v range x {
    fmt.Printf("ind %d, val %d", i, v)
}
```

### Slices

* A "window" on an underlying array.
* Variable size, up to the whole array.

**Pointer**: indicates the start of the slice.
**Length**: number of elements of the slice. `len()`
**Capacity**: maximum number of elements. From start of slice to end of array. `cap()`
```go
arr := [...]string{"a", "b", "c", "d", "e", "f", "g"}
sliceBC := arr[1:3]
sliceCDE := arr[2:5]
```

#### Slice Literal
* Can be used to initialize a slice
* Creates the underlying array and creates a slice to reference it
* Slice points to the start of the array, with length as capacity
```go
mySlice := []int{1, 2, 3}
```

#### `append()`
* Adds elements to the end of slice
* Increases size of slice
* Increases size of underlying array if necessary

### Maps
* Key/Value pairs

#### Map literal
```go
idMap := map[string]int {"joe": 123, "bob": 42}
// access value
fmt.Println(idMap["joe"])
// add/update
idMap["jane"] = 22
// delete
delete(idMap, "joe")
```

#### Map Functions

* 2 value assignment to check for presence
```go
// p == True is key present, else p == False
id, p := idMap["joe"]
```
* `len()` how many k/v pairs

#### Map Iteration

* for loop with `range`
* 2-value assignment with range
```go
for key, value := range idMap {
    fmt.Println(key, val)
}
```


### Make
* create a slice (and array) using `make()`
* 2-argument version: `type`, `length==capacity`
* 3-argument version: `type`, `length`, `capacity`
```go
mySlice = make([]int, 3)
```
--------------------------------------------------
* Create an empty map (hash table)
```go
//map[key type]value type
var idMap map[string]int
idMap = make(map[string]int)
```

### Packages 

#### [`strconv`](https://golang.org/pkg/strconv/)

* https://golang.org/pkg/strconv/#Atoi

#### ['sort'](https://golang.org/pkg/sort/)

* https://golang.org/pkg/sort/#Sort

## Assignment: `slice.go`

>Write a program which prompts the user to enter integers and stores the integers in a sorted slice.The program should be written as a loop. Before entering the loop, the program should create an empty integer slice of size (length) 3. During each pass through the loop, the program prompts the user to enter an integer to be added to the slice. The program adds the integer to the slice, sorts the slice, and prints the contents of the slice in sorted order. The slice must grow in size to accommodate any number of integers which the user decides to enter. The program should only quit (exiting the loop) when the user enters the character ‘X’ instead of an integer.
