# Week 4: RFCs and JSON

>This final module of the course introduces the use of remote function calls (RFCs) and JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) in Go. You’ll learn how to access and manipulate data from external files, and have an opportunity to write several routines using Go that exercise this functionality.

## Learning Objectives
* Describe remote function calls (RFCs).
* Describe JavaScript Object Notation (JSON).
* Describe methods for accessing data in files.
* Write and implement a Go program that employs RFCs and JSON.
* Write and implement a Go program that reads structured text data from a file and then performs some manipulations with those data.

## `io/ioutil` Package

 * `ReadFile()`
 * `WriteFile()`

```go
dat, e := ioutil.ReadFile("test.txt")
```

```go
dat = "Hello, world"
// filename, byte array or string, Unix permission
err := ioutil.WriteFile("outfile.txt", dat, 0777)
```

## `os` Package File Access

Method  | Description
--------|-----------
`os.Open()` | Returns a file descriptor
`os.Close()`| Closes a file
`os.Read()` | Reads file until byte array full. `[]byte`
`os.Write()`| Write from a byte array.

```go
// Reading a file
f, err := os.Open("dt.txt")
barr := make([]byte, 10)
numBytes, err := f.Read(barr)
f.Close()
```

```go
//Writing
f, err := os.Create("outfile.txt")

barr := []byte{1, 2, 3}
nb1, err := f.Write(barr)
nb2, err := f.WriteString("Hello World")
```


## Assignment: `makejson.go`

>Write a program which prompts the user to first enter a name, and then enter an address. Your program should create a map and add the name and address to the map using the keys “name” and “address”, respectively. Your program should use Marshal() to create a JSON object from the map, and then your program should print the JSON object.

## Assignment: `read.go`

>Write a program which reads information from a file and represents it in a slice of structs. Assume that there is a text file which contains a series of names. Each line of the text file has a first name and a last name, in that order, separated by a single space on the line.

>Your program will define a name struct which has two fields, fname for the first name, and lname for the last name. Each field will be a string of size 20 (characters).

>Your program should prompt the user for the name of the text file. Your program will successively read each line of the text file and create a struct which contains the first and last names found in the file. Each struct created will be added to a slice, and after all lines have been read from the file, your program will have a slice containing one struct for each line in the file. After reading all lines from the file, your program should iterate through your slice of structs and print the first and last names found in each struct.

