# MODULE 1: FUNCTIONS AND ORGANIZATION

>Continue your exploration of the Go programming language as you learn about functions, methods, and interfaces. Topics include the implementation of functions, function types, object-orientation in Go, methods, and class instantiation. As with the first course in this series, you’ll have an opportunity to create your own Go applications so you can practice what you’re learning. The first module introduces the concept of functions and shows you how to use them to manipulate data programmatically. Once again, the treatment of the topic begins at a fairly rudimentary level to ensure everyone is starting from the same point in terms of basic concepts.

## Learning Objectives
* Identify the basic features and purposes of functions.
* Identify the benefits of using pointers when working with functions.
* Identify the difference between passing a slice and an array as function arguments.
* Use functions and a slice to implement a sorting routine for integers

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Errata

>There is a small amount of controversy surrounding the expressions "pass by pointer" and "pass by reference." Just search the web for "Pass by Pointer vs. Pass by Reference in Go Programming" and you'll see for yourself! Be aware that our instructor uses "pass by reference" where some Go users would say "pass by pointer" or "pass a pointer."

>Video Lecture M1.1.4: At 4:07, the code appearing on the screen is missing square brackets in function foo as follows: foo(slide [] int).

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Assignment: Bubble Sort Program 

>Write a Bubble Sort program in Go. The program should prompt the user to type in a sequence of up to 10 integers. The program should print the integers out on one line, in sorted order, from least to greatest. Use your favorite search tool to find a description of how the bubble sort algorithm works.

>As part of this program, you should write a function called BubbleSort() which takes a slice of integers as an argument and returns nothing. The BubbleSort() function should modify the slice so that the elements are in sorted order.

>A recurring operation in the bubble sort algorithm is the Swap operation which swaps the position of two adjacent elements in the slice. You should write a Swap() function which performs this operation. Your Swap() function should take two arguments, a slice of integers and an index value i which indicates a position in the slice. The Swap() function should return nothing, but it should swap the contents of the slice in position i with the contents in position i+1.