# Module 2: Function Types

>This second module continues to explore the use of functions in Go. You’ll continue learning about the capabilities and features of functions, and write a routine that solves a practical physics problem.

## Learning Objectives
* Identify advanced types, properties, and uses of functions.
* Identify the output that would result from running a given code block containing functions.
* Develop a routine containing functions in Go that solves a practical physics problem.


## Variable Argument Number

`...` == Python `*args`

## Deferred Function Calls

Like Python context manager.

```go
func main() {
    // evaled immediately
    defer fmt.Println("Bye!")

    fmt.Println("Hello!")
}
```

## Assignment

Let us assume the following formula for displacement `s` as a function of time `t`, acceleration `a`, initial velocity `vo`, and initial displacement `so`.

`s =½ a t2 + vot + so`

Write a program which first prompts the user to enter values for acceleration, initial velocity, and initial displacement. Then the program should prompt the user to enter a value for time and the program should compute the displacement after the entered time.

You will need to define and use a function called GenDisplaceFn() which takes three float64 arguments, acceleration a, initial velocity vo, and initial displacement so. GenDisplaceFn() should return a function which computes displacement as a function of time, assuming the given values acceleration, initial velocity, and initial displacement. The function returned by `GenDisplaceFn()` should take one float64 argument t, representing time, and return one float64 argument which is the displacement travelled after time t.

For example, let’s say that I want to assume the following values for acceleration, initial velocity, and initial displacement: `a = 10`, `vo = 2`, `so = 1`. I can use the following statement to call `GenDisplaceFn()` to generate a function fn which will compute displacement as a function of time.

```go
fn := GenDisplaceFn(10, 2, 1)
```

Then I can use the following statement to print the displacement after 3 seconds.

```go
fmt.Println(fn(3))
```

And I can use the following statement to print the displacement after 5 seconds.

```go
fmt.Println(fn(5))
```