# Module 4: Interfaces for Abstraction

>This last module rounds out the course by introducing several new concepts including interfaces and polymorphism. You’ll finish the module – and course – by creating a Go routine that creates instances of a class and allows you to query its properties.

## Learning Objectives
* Identify the basic characteristics and features of interfaces in Go.
* Identify the characteristics of polymorphism.
* Identify the features associated with overriding and inheritance.
* Develop an interactive Go routine that uses classes, objects, instances, structs, and methods to create new class instances and later query their properties.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Notes

* Go does not have inheritance

## Interfaces

Polymorphism in Go

* set of method signatures
  * Name, parameters, return values
  * Implementation is NOT defined
* used to express conceptual similarity between types


### Satisfying an Interface
* type satisfies an interface if type defines all methods specified in the interface
  * same method signatures
  * additional methods are OK

* Similar to inheritance with overriding


### Interface Values
* can be treated like other values
  * assigned to variables
  * passed, returned
* interface values have two components
  1. Dynamic Type: concrete type which it is assigned to
  2. Dynamic Value: value of the dynamic type
  * interface value is a pair (dynamic type, dynamic value)

----------------------------------------------------
### Example: `Shape2D interface`
* All 2D shapes must have `Area()` and `Perimeter()`


```go
type Shape2D interface {
    Area() float64
    Perimeter() float64
}
type Triangle {...}
func (t Triangle) Area() float64 {...}
func (t Triangle) Perimeter() float64 {...}
```

### Example: defining an interface type

```go
type Speaker interface {Speak ()}

type Dog struct {name string}
func (d Dog) Speak() {
    fmt.Println(d.name)
}
func main() {
    var s1 Speaker
    var d1 Dog{"Brian"}
    s1 = d1
    s1.Speak()
}

```

-----------------------------------------------------


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Assignment
>The goal of this assignment is to write a GoLang routine that allows users to create a set of animals and then get information about those animals.

Write a program which allows the user to create a set of animals and to get information about those animals. Each animal has a name and can be either a cow, bird, or snake. With each command, the user can either create a new animal of one of the three types, or the user can request information about an animal that he/she has already created. Each animal has a unique name, defined by the user. Note that the user can define animals of a chosen type, but the types of animals are restricted to either cow, bird, or snake. The following table contains the three types of animals and their associated data.

Animal  | Food eaten | Locomotion method | Spoken sound
--------|-------|-------|------------------------------
cow     |grass  |walk   |moo
bird    |worms  |fly    |peep
snake   |mice   |slither|hsss

Your program should present the user with a prompt, `>`, to indicate that the user can type a request. Your program should accept one command at a time from the user, print out a response, and print out a new prompt on a new line. Your program should continue in this loop forever. Every command from the user must be either a “newanimal” command or a “query” command.

Each “newanimal” command must be a single line containing three strings. The first string is “newanimal”. The second string is an arbitrary string which will be the name of the new animal. The third string is the type of the new animal, either “cow”, “bird”, or “snake”. Your program should process each newanimal command by creating the new animal and printing “Created it!” on the screen.

Each “query” command must be a single line containing 3 strings. The first string is “query”. The second string is the name of the animal. The third string is the name of the information requested about the animal, either “eat”, “move”, or “speak”. Your program should process each query command by printing out the requested data.

Define an interface type called `Animal` which describes the methods of an animal. Specifically, the `Animal` interface should contain the methods `Eat()`, `Move()`, and `Speak()`, which take no arguments and return no values. The `Eat()` method should print the animal’s food, the `Move()` method should print the animal’s locomotion, and the `Speak()` method should print the animal’s spoken sound. Define three types `Cow`, `Bird`, and `Snake`. For each of these three types, define methods `Eat()`, `Move()`, and `Speak()` so that the types `Cow`, `Bird`, and `Snake` all satisfy the `Animal` interface. When the user creates an animal, create an object of the appropriate type. Your program should call the appropriate method when the user issues a query command.